Grainy but unmistakably a man and woman making love. Photograph shakes. SOUND of a man MOANING in anguish. The photograph is dropped, REVEALING ANOTHER, MORE compromising one. Then another, and another. More moans.
CURLY drops the photos on Gittes' desk. Curly towers over GITTES and sweats heavily through his workman's clothes, his breathing progressively more labored. A drop plunks on Gittes' shiny desk top. Gittes notes it. A fan whiffs overhead. Gittes glances up at it. He looks cool and brisk in a white linen suit despite the heat. Never taking his eyes off Curly, he lights a cigarette using a lighter with a "nail" on his desk. Curly, with another anguished sob, turns and rams his fist into the wall, kicking the wastebasket as he does. He starts to sob again, slides along the wall where his fist has left a noticeable dent and its impact has sent the signed photos of several movie stars askew. Curly slides on into the blinds and sinks to his knees. He is weeping heavily now, and is in such pain that he actually bites into the blinds. Gittes doesn't move from his chair. Curly responds slowly, rising to his feet, crying. Gittes reaches into his desk and pulls out a shot glass, quickly selects a cheaper bottle of bourbon from several fifths of more expensive whiskeys. Gittes pours a large shot. He shoves the glass across his desk toward Curly. Curly stares dumbly at it. Then picks it up, and drains it. He sinks back into the chair opposite Gittes, begins to cry quietly. Gittes leaves the bottle with Curly. noticeably less plush than Gitte's. A well-groomed, darkhaired WOMAN sits nervously between their two desks, fiddling with the veil on her pillbox hat. There is the SOUND of ANOTHER MOAN coming from Gittes' Office -- something made of glass shatters. The Woman grows more edgy. Gittes and Curly stand in front of the desk, Gittes staring contemptuously at the heavy breathing hulk towering over him. Gittes takes a handkerchief and wipes away the plunk of perspiration on his desk. Gittes pounds the photos on the desk, shouting; Curly shrinks back a little. This seems to upset Curly even more. He's now walking him past SOPHIE who pointedly averts her gaze. He opens the door where on the pebbled glass can be read: J. J. GITTES and Associates - DISCREET INVESTIGATION. He shuts the door on him and the smile disappears. He shakes his head, starting to swear under his breath. Gittes nods, walks on in. Walsh rises when Gittes enters. Gittes walks over to her and again flashes a warm, sympathetic smile. She holds her breath. The revelation isn't easy for her. Gittes looks mildly shocked. He turns for confirmation to his two partners. Gittes pulls up a chair sitting next to Mrs. Mulwray -- between Duffy and Walsh. Duffy cracks his gum. Gittes gives him an irritated glance. Duffy stops chewing. Mrs. Mulwray hesitates. She seems uncommonly nervous at the question. Gittes sighs. Her intensity is genuine. Gittes looks to his two partners. Mrs. Mulwray nods, almost shyly. Gittes is now casually but carefully checking out the detailing of Mrs. Mulwray's dress -- her handbag, shoes, etc. Gittes' glance tells Duffy Gittes wants to do the questioning. Mrs. Mulwray nods. already shimmering with heat. A drunk blows his nose with his fingers into the fountain at the foot of the steps. 7. Gittes, impeccably dressed, passes the drunk on the way up the stairs.Former Mayor SAM BAGBY is speaking. Behind him is a huge map, with overleafs and bold lettering: "PROPOSED ALTO VALLEJO DAM AND RESERVOIR" Some of the councilmen are reading funny papers and gossip columns while Bagby is speaking. sitting next to some grubby farmers, bored. He yawns -- edges away from one of the dirtier farmers. An amalgam of farmers, businessmen, and city employees have been listening with keen interest. A couple of the farmers applaud. Somebody shooshes them. looking up with interest from his racing form. walks to the huge map with overleafs. He is a slender man in his sixties, who wears glasses and moves with surprising fluidity. He turns to a smaller, younger man, and nods. The man turns the overleaf on the map. Mulwray leaves the overleaf board and sits down. Suddenly there are some whoops and hollers from the rear of the chambers and a red-faced FARMER drives in several scrawny, bleating sheep. Naturally, they cause a commotion. Bailiffs and sergeants-at-arms respond to the imprecations of the Council and attempt to capture the sheep and the farmers, having to restrain one who looks like he's going to bodily attack Mulwray. It's virtually empty. Sun blazes off it's ugly concrete banks. Where the banks are earthen, they are parched and choked with weeds. After a moment, Mulwray's car pulls INTO VIEW on a flood control road about fifteen feet above the riverbed. Mulwray gets out of the car. Me looks around. holding a pair of binoculars, downstream and just above the flood control road -- using some dried mustard weeds for cover. he watches while Mulwray makes his way down to the center of the riverbed. There Mulwray stops, tuns slowly, appears to be looking at the bottom of the riverbed, or -- at nothing at all. GITTES trains the binoculars on him. Sun glints off Mulwray's glasses. There's the SOUND of something like champagne corks popping. Then a small Mexican boy atop a swayback horse rides it into the riverbed, and into Gitte's view. MULWRAY himself stops, stands still when he hears the sound. Power lines and the sun are overhead, the trickle of brackish water at his feet. He moves swiftly downstream in the direction of the sound, toward Gittes. moves a little further back as Mulwray rounds the bend in the river and comes face to face with the Mexican boy on the muddy banks. Mulwray says something to the boy. The boy doesn't answer at first. Mulwray points to the ground. The boy gestures. Mulwray frowns. He kneels down in the mud and stares at it. He seems to be concentrating on it. After a moment, he rises, thanks the boy and heads swiftly back upstream -- scrambling up the bank to his car. There he reaches through the window and pulls out a roll of blueprints or something like them - he spreads them on the hood of his car and begins to scribble some notes, looking downstream from time to time. The power lines overhead HUM. He stops, listens to them -- then rolls up the plans and gets back in the car. He drives off. GITTES Hurries to get back to his car. He gets in and gets right back out. The steamy leather burns him. He takes a towel from the back seat and carefully places it on the front one. He gets in and takes off. Street lights go on. MULWRAY pulls up, parks. Hurries out of the car, across the park lawn and into the shade of some trees and buildings. GITTES pulls up, moves across the park at a different angle, but in the direction Mulwray had gone. He makes it through the trees in time to see Mulwray scramble adroitly down the side of the cliff to the beach below. Be seems in a hurry. Gittes moves after him - having a little more difficulty negotiating the climb than Mulwray did. DOWN ON THE BEACH Gittes looks to his right - where the bay is a long, clear crescent. He looks to his left - there's a promontory of sorts. It's apparent Mulwray has gone that way. Gittes hesitates, then moves in that direction -- but climbs along the promontory in order to be above Mulwray. AT THE OUTFALL Gittes spots Mulwray just below him, kicking at the sand. Mulwray picks up a starfish. Brushes the sand off it. Looks absently up toward Gittes. GITTES backs away, sits near the outfall, yawns. BEACON LIGHT AT POINT FERMIN flashing in the dust. CLOSE - GITTES sitting, suddenly starts. He swears softly -- he's in a puddle of water and the seat of his trousers is wet. MULWRAY below him in watching the water trickling down from the outfall near Gittes. Mulwray stands and stares at the water, apparently fascinated. Even as Gittes watches Mulwray watching, the volume and velocity seem to increase until it gushes in spurts, cascading into the sea, whipping it into a foam. AT THE STREET - GITTES' CAR There's a slip of paper stuck under the windshield wiper. Gittes pulls it off, gets in the car and turns on the dash light. It says: "SAVE OUR CITY! LOS ANGELES IS DYING OF THIRST! PROTECT YOUR PROPERTY! LOS ANGELES IS YOUR INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE!!! VOTE YES NOVEMBER 6......CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO SAVE OUR CITY, HON. SAM BAGBY, FORMER MAYOR - CHAIRMAN." Gittes grumbles, crumples it up and tosses it out the window. He notices other flyers parked on a couple of cars down the street. Gittes reaches down and opens his glove compartment. consists of a small mountain of Ingersoll pocket watches. The cheap price tags are still on them. Gittes pulls out one. He absently winds it, checks the time with his own watch. It's 9:37 as he walks to .Mulwray's car and places it behind the front wheel of Mulwray's car. He yawns again and heads back to his own car. arrives whistling, opens the door with "J.J. GITTES AND ASSOCIATES - DISCREET INVESTIGATION" on it. Sophie hands him a small pile of messages. He goes through them. Gittes walks through his office to Duffy and Walsh's. A little red light is on in the corner, over a closed door. Gittes walks over and knocks on the door. Gittes walks to his office. ON HIS DESK is the Ingersoll watch, the crystal broken -- the hands stopped at 2:47. Gittes drops it, sits down. Walsh comes in carrying a series of wet photos stuck with clothes pins onto a small blackboard. Walsh shows him the photos. He looks at them. They are a series outside a restaurant showing Mulwray with another man whose appearance is striking. In two of the photos a gnarled cane is visible. Gittes tosses down the photos in disgust. Duffy's VOICE can be HEARD, excitedly -- "I got it. I got it. He's found himself some cute little twist - in a rowboat, in Echo Park." Duffy is rowing, Gittes seated in the stern. They pass Mulwray and a slender blonde girl in a summer print dress, drifting in their rowboat, Mulwray fondly doting on the girl. He shoots past Duffy, expertly running off a couple of fast shots. Mulwray and the girl seem blissfully unaware of them. DUFFY turns again and they row past Mulwray and the girl, Gittes again clicking off several fast shots. CLOSE SHOT - SIGN: "EL MACANDO APARTMENTS" MOVE ALONG the red tiled roof and down to a lower level of the roof where Gittes' feet are hooked over the apex of the roof and Gittes himself is stretched face downward on the tiles, pointing himself and his camera to a veranda below him where the girl and Mulwray are eating. Gittes is clicking off more shots when the tiles his feet are hooked over come loose. Gittes begins a slow slide down the tile to the edge of the roof -- and possibly over it to a three-story drop. He tries to slow himself down. The loose tile also begins to slide. Gittes stops himself at the roof's edge by the storm drain and begins a very precarious turn - this time hooking his feet in the drain itself. The loose tile falls and hits the veranda below. He stops as it's about to slide over the edge. He carefully lays it in the drain. But a fragment off the cracked edge of the tile falls. WITH MULWRAY AND THE GIRL Mulwray staring at the fragment at his feet. He looks to the girl. He's clearly concerned. He rises, looks up to the roof. FROM HIS POV The roof and the sign topping it betray nothing. He slowly sits back down, staring at the tile fragment. 15. CLOSE SHOT - NEWSPAPER DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER BLOWS FUSE OVER CHIEF'S USE OF FUNDS FOR EL MACANDO LOVE NEST. In the style of the Hearst yellow press, there is a heartshaped drawing around one of the photos that Gittes had taken. Next to it is a smaller column, "J.J. Gittes hired by suspicious spouse." holds the paper and reads while getting his haircut and his shoes shined. In fact, almost all the customers are reading papers. In b.g., customers can be 0VERHEARD talking about the drought. Interspersed with above, someone is saying, "They're gonna start rationing water unless it rains." Someone else says, "Only for washing your cars." Third says, "You're not going to be able to water your lawn either, or take a bath more than once a week." First says, "If you don't have a lawn or a car, do you get an extra bath?" Gittes has been staring outside the barbershop. A car is stalled. The hood is up. A man watches his radiator boiling over. Gittes has heard the word. He straightens up. Gittes laughs. Gittes gets out of the chair. Barney, a little concerned, tries to restrain him, holding onto the barber sheet around Gittes' neck. Gittes is trying to take off his sheet. The Customer is shrinking back into the chair. Gittes allows himself to be tugged back to his chair. Gittes comes bursting in, slapping a newspapers on his thigh. Walsh comes out of his office, Duffy out of the other one. She gets up and leaves. A stunning YOUNG WOMAN appears behind Gittes in his doorway. She's shortly joined by a small, GRAY-HAIRED MAN. They listen, unseen by Gittes. Gittes hangs onto Sophie's desk laughing his ass off. The little Gray-Haired Man winces. When Gittes looks up he sees the Young Woman, apparently in her late twenties. She's so stunning that Gittes nearly gasps. Gittes is staggered. He glances down at the newspaper. She's walked past him toward the door. He stop her. Evelyn flashes a cold smile. Evelyn starts out the door and Gittes starts after her. This time he's stopped by the Gray-Haired Man who has also come out of his office and up behind him. Gittes turns to be handed a thick sheaf of papers, a summons and complaint. Evelyn walks out the door. Gittes stares down at the papers in his hand. On Gittes' desk. there are empty coffee cups, the summons and complaint -- and the newspaper Gittes had brought with him from the barber shop. The three men are sitting, worn and silent. Walsh chewing gum is the loudest noise in the room. Gittes looks to Walsh with obvious irritation. Walsh stops chewing. Duffy puts out a cigarette in the dregs of one of the coffee cups. Gittes is staring down at the newspaper. He suddenly grabs the phone, begins dialing. A tight little smile breaks out on his face. He buzzes Sophie. Sophie BUZZES. He hangs up. Gittes stops outside a door marked: HOLLIS J. MULWRAY CHIEF ENGINEER He enters an outer office. The SECRETARY looks surprised. Without waiting for a response, he does. The Secretary half rises in protest but Gittes is through the inner door. MULWRAY'S INNER OFFICE The walls are covered with commendation, photos of Mulwray at various construction sites, large maps of watershed areas and reservoirs in the city. On the desk is a framed, tinted photo of Evelyn in riding clothes. Gittes moves to the desk, watching the translucent pane in the upper half of the door leading to the outer office as he does. He begins to open and close. the desk drawers after quickly examining the top. He tries one of the drawers and it doesn't open. He reopens the top drawer, and the bottom one opens. He looks in it, pulls out a checkbook. He opens it -- riffles through the stubs like he was shuffling cards. Drops it -- finds a set of keys, an old phone book, and a menu from a Water Department lunch at the Biltmore Hotel in 1913. Then, Gittes hauls out the blueprints that Mulwray had laid across the hood of his car -- they read in bold type: WATERSHED AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM FOR THE LOS ANGELES BASIN. He flips through them -- reads one notation in Mulwray's neat hand: "Tues. night. Oak Pass Res. - 7 channels used." Gittes spots a shadow looming in front of the translucent pane. He quickly tosses item after item back, kneeing the drawer --nearly knocking a spare pair of Mulwray's glasses off the desk top when he does. He catches them, puts them on the desk and is pacing the room as the door opens. RUSS YELBURTON enters the room. An anxious Secretary is right behind him. Smaller than Mulwray's, he has most noticeably a lacquered marlin mounted on the wall. There are a couple of other pictures of Yelburton with yellowtail and other fish he's standing beside. There's also a small burgee of a fish with the initials A.C. below it, tacked onto the wall. Gittes fishes a couple off the tray, puts them in his handkerchief pocket. He goes out the door, nearly running into a man who is standing by the Secretary's desk - about GITTES' age only a head taller and a foot wider, dressed in a plain suit that fits him about as well as a brown paper bag. MULVIHILL stares at Gittes with unblinking eyes, remains by the desk. Mulvihill moves toward Gittes, shaking with fury. Yelburton steps between them. turns off onto a winding road. It goes up into the foothills. Gittes swerves, missing a dog stretched out lazily in the road. Gittes honks and yells indignantly at the sleepy animal. Gittes stops on a curve. Above a steep bank and partially hidden is the Mulwray home -- designed and constructed with shade and curves that are dramatic. When he turns off the ignition, the distant SOUND of the SURF can be HEARD. Gittes heads up to the entrance. rings the bell. He waits. Powerful CHINESE BUTLER with heavy hair and a half- jacket of gold on one front tooth, answers the door. He hands the Chinese Butler a card from his wallet. The Butler takes it and disappears, leaving Gittes standing in the doorway. Gittes stands, and sweats, watching a Japanese GARDENER trim a hedge. There's a SQUEAKING SOUND. Gittes moves a few feet off the porch. A chauffeur is washing down a cream-colored Packard with a chamois. Steam rises off the hood. The squeaking has obviously come from the chamois. Gittes looks behind him. The Chinese Butler is gesturing for him to follow. follows him, trying to check out the rooms as he goes. A maid is cleaning in the den. They pass through it out some French doors along a trellised walkway to a large pond with running water. Gittes is left standing by the pond. It's suddenly very quiet except for the runnning water. The pond is over- flowing. After a moment, the Gardener comes running back. He smiles at Gittes, probes into the pond. There's something gleaming in the bottom of it. Gittes notes it. After a moment, the Gardener drops the long probe -- the waters recede. The Gardener nods, and is off, leaving Gittes staring at the object in the bottom of the pond that is gleaming. He looks at the tool the Gardener was using, hesitates, picks it up and starts to probe into the pond himself, toward the gleaming object. He then spots Evelyn rounding a turn, coming down the trellised pathway. He casually belts the probe, holds onto it for poise. Evelyn is wearing jeans that are lathered white on the inside of the thighs and laced with brown horsehair. She's wearing riding boots, is perspiring a little, but looks younger than she did in the office. Gittes is a little taken aback at seeing Evelyn. He is annoyed as well. Nevertheless, he is elaborately polite. He laughs. a little nervously. He waits for a reply. There is none. The Chinese Butler appears on the veranda. Chinese Butler nods, disappears. Evelyn sits at a glass-topped table. Gittes Joins her. He waits for a response. The iced tea comes on a tray which Ramon sets down between them. Evelyn looks up. Gittes smiles a little sheepishly. Again he laughs a little nervously. Again no reaction. Evelyn brushes lightly at the horsehair on her Jeans. Gittes nods. Gittes drives up a winding road, following a flood channel up into the parched hills. TWO FIRE TRUCKS, one a rescue truck, are at the entrance to the reservoir. The chain link fence with its KEEP OUT sign is open and there are people milling around. The reservoir is below. Gittes' car is stopped by a couple of UNIFORMED POLICE. Gittes hesitates only a moment. He fishes out one of Yelburton's cards from his handkerchief pocket -- hands it to the Guard. Gittes drives past the Guards, through the gate, along the reservoir. He spots a police car and an unmarked one as well. Gittes stops and gets out of the car. Several men with their backs turned, one talking quietly, staring down into the reservoir where other men in small skiffs are apparently dredging for something. One of the men turns and sees Gittes. He recognizes Gittes and is visibly shocked. Loach tries to ease him down the path. At the sound of his raised voice, a man standing at the edge of the channel, talking to two boys in swimming trunks, turns around. He's a tall, sleek Mexican in his early thirties, LUIS ESC0BAR. Both Gittes and Escobar register considerable surprise at seeing one another. The men around them are extremely uneasy. Loach is actually sweating. Finally, Escobar smiles. Gittes reaches into his pocket, pulls out his cigarette case. Escobar nods. They walk a couple of steps -- the other police -- two plainclothesmen and a uniformed officer watch them. It's apparent Gittes is impressed despite himself. Escobar points down to the reservoir -- a couple of men using poles with hooks are fishing about in the water. It can be SEEN that one of them has hooked something. He shouts. The other man hooks it, too. They pull, revealing the soaking back of a man's coat -- they start to pull the body into the skiff. are standing over the body of Mulwray. Escobar has the sheet drawn back. Evelyn nods. Escobar drops the sheet. Escobar and Evelyn move a few feet to one side and whisper, almost as though they were trying to keep the corpse from hearing them. Evelyn nods slightly Escobar coughs. A coroner's assistant wheels the body out of the office. Gittes has been sitting on a wooden bench, smoking and listening. At this question, he rises and looks through the doorway. Escobar sees him, ignores him. Evelyn doesn't see him. Evelyn shows a flash of annoyance. Escobar and Evelyn move slowly toward the door. Evelyn looks up to see Gittes standing in the doorway only a foot or two from her. She stops cold. They look at one another for a long moment. She finishes, looks plaintively at Gittes. Escobar is right at her back. Gittes says nothing. Evelyn looks at Escobar but doesn't know how to answer him. Escobar nods. They begin to walk slowly, again have to move out of the way as some other corpse is being wheeled out of one of the Coroner cubicles. They have walked a few steps further down the hall. Evelyn glances at Gittes. They go through a couple of outer doors and pass several reporters who have been in the outer hall, laughing, kidding, the tag end of lines like "only in L.A." and "Southern Cafeteria." Gittes hurries her past the reporters who flank them, asking questions. Gittes brushes them aside. in a small parking lot. Evelyn fumbles in her bag, looking feverishly for some- thing in her purse. She glances down, leans against the side of the car. Evelyn gets in her car. She drives off, leaving Gittes gaping. Escobar shrugs. Escobar looks up. Resume walking. Gittes laughs. Escobar stops. Gittes nods, turns, and walks down the hall. Gittes stops by a body on the table, the toe tagged with Mulwray's name. MORTY is standing near it in a doorway to an adjoining room. A RADIO is on, and with it the announcement that they're about to hear another chapter in the life of Lorenzo Jones and his devoted wife, Belle. Another Coroner's assistant sits at the table, listening to the radio and eating a sandwich. Gittes ambles into the room. Gittes picks up the sheet and pulls it back. CAMERA GETS ITS FIRST GLIMPSE of Mulwray's body -- eyes open, the face badly cut and bruised. Morty is wheeling in another body with the help of an assistant. As he begins to move the body into the refrigerator, he breaks into a wrenching spasm of coughing. Gittes spots the other body, lowers the. sheet on Mulwray. Morty pulls back the sheet. Morty brushes some sand from the man's face, laughs. Gittes has already lost interest. He starts away. This stops Gittes. Gittes has moved back to the body, looks at it more closely. He's parked on an overpass -- the sign HOLLENBECK BRIDGE on one of its concrete columns. Gittes looks down into the riverbed below. Gittes can see the muddy remains of a collapsed shack, its contents strewn down river from the bridge. Below him, lying half over the storm drain and one wall that was on the bank of the river is a sign that proclaims OWN YOUR OWN OFFICE IN THIS BUILDING $5000 to $6000 which was used as a roof of sorts. Downstream, there's the dresser, an oil drum, a Ford seat cushion, an Armour lard can, etc. -- the trashy remains of Shuhardt's home. Gittes scrambles down the embankment and as he lands near the storm drain one shoe sinks, ankle deep into mud. Gittes pulls it out, swearing. He begins to walk a little further downstream when he hears the vaguely familiar SQUISHY CLOP of something. Clearing the bridge. on the opposite side is the little Mexican Boy, again on his swayback horse, riding along the muddy bank. They look at one another a moment. The Boy doesn't answer. The shadows of the two are very long now. Gittes nods. The horse snorts. The Boy rides slowly on. Gittes scrambles up the embankment to note the direction the storm drain by Hollenbeck Bridge takes. It is headed above toward the Hollywood Hills, where the sun is setting. winding his way up a section of the Hollywood Hills. He picks up on an open flood channel with the spotlight by the driver's windwing. along the flood channel. It is dark now and Gittes follows the channel with the car spotlight. He turns at a fork in the road which allows him to continue following the flood channel.The road is narrower. Gittes drives more slowly. Foliage is overgrown in the channel so its bottom cannot be glimpsed. The road is dirt. Heavy clusters of oak trees and eucalyptus are everywhere. It is very still. Another turn and a pieshaped view of a lake of lights in the city below can be GLIMPSED. over the road, bolted. It says OAK PASS RESERVOIR. KEEP OUT. NO TRESPASSING. The chain-link itself actually extends over the flood channel and down into it, making access along the channel itself impossible. Gittes backs up, turns off the motor, the car lights, the spotlight. A lone light overhead on tension wires is the sole illumination. There is only the eerie SOUND of the tension WIRES HUMMING. Gittes gets out of the car, clubs the fence near the Flood channel itself. ON THE OTHER SIDE Gittes carefully works his way up through the thick Foliage toward a second and large chain-link fence. Lights from the reservoir still higher above can be SEEN. Suddenly there is a GUNSHOT. Then ANOTHER. Gittes dives into the flood control channel, which is at this point about four feet deep and six feet wide. There is the SOUND of men scurrying through the brush, coming near him, then retreating. Gittes loses himself among the ivy in the channel. He waits. The men seem to have passed him by. But there is another SOUND now -- an echoing growing sound. It puzzles Gittes. He starts to lift his head to catch the direction. Then he's inundated with a rush of water which pours over him, knocks off his hat, carries him down the channel, banging into its banks, as he desperately tries to grab some of the overgrowth to hang on and pull himself out. But the force of the stream batters him and carries him with it until he's brought rudely to the chain-link fence. It stops him cold. He's nearly strained through it. Swearing and choking, he pulls himself out of the rushing water by means of the fence itself. Drenched, battered, he slowly climbs back over the fence and makes his way toward his car. He fishes for his car keys, looks down -- one shoe is missing. He starts to get into his car but Mulvihill and a SMALLER MAN stop him -- Mulvihill pulling his coat down and pinning his arms -- holding him tightly. The smaller man thrusts a switchblade knife about an inch and a half up Gittes' left nostril. frozen, the knife in his nostril, the street lamp over- head gleaming on the silvery blade. The Smaller Man actually seems to be trembling with rage when he says this. Gittes doesn't move. With a quick flick the Smaller Man pulls back on the blade, laying Gittes' left nostril open about an inch further. Gittes screams. Blood gushes down onto his shirt and coat. Gittes bends over, instinctively trying to keep the blood from getting on his clothes. Mulvihill and the Smaller Man stare at him. Gittes is now groveling on his hands and knees. Gittes on the ground can see only his tormentor's two- tone brown and white wing-tipped shoes -- lightly freckled with his blood. Comes up and lightly shoves Gittes into the ground. the SOUND of FOOTSTEPS RETREATING, Gittes gasping. sits behind his desk, BACK TO CAMERA, not moving. Duffy sits staring at nothing, Walsh moves uneasily around the room. a bandage spread-eagled across Gittes' nose. Gittes turns slowly to Walsh. He lightly taps his nose. Walsh promptly starts to tell Duffy the Admiral Byrd story. Walsh has finished off the punch line and both men are laughing raucously. Gittes drops the mail he's been loafing through and puts his hand over the receiver. Gittes is seated, flips through the paper until he finds the OBITUARY COLUMN -- scans it, looks up -- abruptly tears the column from the paper and puts it in his pocket. When he closes the paper we can SEE headlines in the left hand column: WATER BOND ISSUE PASSES COUNCIL. Ten million dollar referendum to go before the public. Evelyn Mulwray is standing at the table as he does so. He rises, allows her to sit. Gittes watches her as she removes her gloves slowly... She's wearing dove gray gabardine -- subdued, tailored. Evelyn looks down and smoothes her gloves. When she looks back up she stares expectantly at Gittes. Gittes pulls out a torn envelope. The initials ECM can be SEEN in a delicate scroll on the comer of it. Gittes' fingers the envelope. He coughs. The drinks come. The waiter sets them down. Gittes smiles. Evelyn remains unperturbed. Evelyn for the first time appears a little embarrassed. Gittes looks significantly to Evelyn. Evelyn is clearly angry but she is controlling it. This subdues Gittes a little. Evelyn is still a little heated. Evelyn looks squarely at him. She doesn't deny it. Gittes nods. He's been fingering the envelope... Evelyn turns into Gittes. Gittes suddenly turns sharply in to Evelyn. Evelyn involuntarily draws back. Evelyn reluctantly allows Gittes to move closer and dangle his hand in front of their faces. She stares at him. Evelyn actually smiles a little. Gittes looks up and flashes his smile. Mrs. MATCH is swaying over the table, a plump woman with a glass of whiskey in one hand, a large purse in the other, and a menacing look in her eye. Gittes turns back to Evelyn. She tries to take a swipe at Gittes with her purse. Gittes covers himself. Waiters rush over. Mrs. Match swings at Gittes again and again. She catches him on the nose. It hurts. He covers it -- then swings his leg out from under the table and deftly kicks her in the shin. Mrs. Match drops her purse and spills her drink. She grabs her shin, hopping around a little. The waiters who had tried to restrain her now try to keep her from falling over. They rise and move toward the door. Gittes looks, sees she's kidding, and nods. Gittes' car has been brought by the parking attendant. The attendant opens the passenger side for Evelyn. The attendant starts after it again. Gittes leans on the open door of his car and in to Evelyn. He talks quietly but spits it out. Evelyn steadies herself on the open car door. She stares at Gittes for a long moment. Then he gently tugs the car door closed. He drives off into the Wilshire traffic, leaving Evelyn looking after him. Gittes goes through the door to the Secretary. She looks up. She recognizes Gittes again and is not happy to see him. The Secretary immediately gets up and goes into the inner office. Gittes turns and strolls around the office a moment -- he sees a photographic display of THE HISTORY OF THE DWP - THE EARLY YEARS, along the wall. He stops as he spots a photo of the man with the cane Gittes had seen photos of earlier -- He is standing high in the mountains, near a pass. The caption reads JULIAN CROSS - 1905. Cross is strikingly handsome. Gittes immediately pulls out the envelope containing Evelyn's check. He looks at the corner of it, his thumb pressing down under the middle initial C, then he looks back to the photos -- The Secretary returns. Gittes pulls out a cigarette case, offers the Secretary one. She refuses, He lights up and begins to hum 'The Way You Look Tonight,' strolling along the wall looking at more photographs. Here he spots several photos of a much younger Mulwray, along with Julian Cross. One of the captions: HOLLIS MULWRAY AND JULIAN CROSS AS THE AQUEDUCT CLEARS THE SANTA SUSANNAH PASS - 1912. Gittes, still humming, turns to the Secretary. She gets up, annoyed, and goes into Yelburton's inner office. Gittes goes back to the photographs. He hears a SCRATCHING SOUND, apparently coming from just outside the outer door. He moves quickly to it, hesitates -- swiftly opens the door. workmen are behind it, scraping away Mulwray's name on the outer door -- looking up at Gittes in some surprise. The Secretary returns, sees the workman on the floor. Gittes nods graciously, heads on into Yelburton's office. There is a subtle but perceptible difference in Yelburton's attitude. He's now head of the department. Gittes smiles -- leaves an unsmiling Yelburton. Gittes enters, drops his hat on Sophie's desk. Sophie tries to tell him something but Gittes goes on into his office. Evelyn Mulwray is sitting, smoking. She looks up when he enters.